# Elegant Slider v6.3

This JS/CSS module will generate a slider. You can choose between *translate* and *fade* animations and provide some other optionnal values. Clean infinite looping possible.  
Compatible with touch events.    
I tried my best to make it simple, robust and light-weighted (5.0kB for minified JS, 1.2 kB for minified CSS).  
I provide it not minified though, so that you can tune it if you need to.

The structure is quite classic: an external wrapper, an internal wrapper that is responsible for slides animation, and the slides.

It has a `slideChange` event, and can be manipulated from outside (like `slider.showSlide(3)`)

## Steps
1. Copy and paste this HTML structure in your page. if you want a _fade_ animation (instead of default _translation_ animation), add 'fade-transition' class to 'slides-tape'. Keep these minimal CSS classes below.
```
<div class="slider-wrapper">
	<div class="slides-tape"> <!-- add fade-transition class if needed -->
		<div class="slide"></div>
		<div class="slide"></div>
		<div class="slide"></div>
	</div>
</div>
```
2. use `slider.css` file into your HTML page. 
3. In a module script, write the following :
```
import createSlider from './path/to/slider.js'
const mySliderWrapper = document.querySelector('.my-selector')
const mySlider = createSlider( mySliderWrapper, { /* options */} )
```
4. _optionnal_ : if you need to control the slider from external commands, you can execute slider commands from outside (typically `my_slider.showSlide(x, isAnimated)`, where `x` is the slide number and isAnimated defaults to `true`).

- `node` is the HTML node that will be displayed as slider (with `.slider-wrapper` class).
- `options` is an object with the following entries. If some entries are missing, or if no object is given, it will use default values (see below).

## Options
The given values are default values. If they suit your needs, you don’t need to specify them.
```
{  
	animationTiming: 200, // animation duration in ms (int),
	pauseTiming: 0, // slide display duration in ms (int, 0 → manual switch between slides),
	infiniteCycle: false, // infinite loop between slides (bool),
	showArrows: true, // show navigation arrows (bool),
	showDots: true, // show navgation dots (bool),
	showSlideNumber: false, // show slide number, eg. 2/15 instead of dots (bool). Prevails on showDots option
	preventTouchEvents: false, // cancel all touch events, for full automatic slider
	fullSwipe: false, // swipe slide one by one. If true, swipe the entire slider content (in cas of multiple simultaneous slide display)
}
```
## Notes
CSS is minimal. Feel free to tune it to your needs. Some parameters are generated by JS though. With *fade* animation, you **have** to set an height or an aspect ratio for sliderWrapper due to absolute positionning of slides. Default `min-height: 10rem` is given just for you to spot the slider if you forget to specify its height or its aspect-ratio.

**Show muliples slides at the same time :** just override the "flex-basis" on the .slide class. Default is 100%, which means a slide use 100% of the slider width. 50% displays two slides at the same time, 33.3% displays three slides, etc. You can adjust this value with @media query.  
Infinite loop with multiple slides display is not perfect when transitioning from first slide to last one, though. 

### Debugging
0.5: fixed bug when showArrows = false  
0.6: improvement on z-index with fade animation  
0.7: choice between dots and lines for dotLines content  
1.0: resize slider dynamically on window resize event  
1.1: delegate width and aspect ratio to CSS.  
1.2: minor code improvements  
2.0: algorithm change for infinite looping  
3.0: HTML structure pre-writted to avoid flash on load. While JS is not loaded, the first slide will be correctly displayed.  
3.1: accessibility improvements (aria-role and aria-label on JS generated commands)  
3.2: minor improvment + show slide number option (like 2/15).  
4.0: `createSlider` function returns the slider object, so it can be manipulated by external code. `changeSlide` event is fired when active slide changes. `event.detail` provide the new active slide number.  
4.1: minor bug correction (allow touch event on arrows and dots)  
4.2: better handling two fingers zoom event on touch screen  
5.0: improved touch events handling. Minor CSS improvments  
5.2: minor CSS/JS improvments  
5.3: opacity minor bug corrected, displayed slide has class "active", to improve animation possibilities (not used by default), option to prevent touch events  
5.4: better handling of swipe events after last slide or before first slide when not infinite  
6.0: allow multiple slides display at the same time  
6.1: minor improvements  
6.2: minor improvements  
6.3: minor improvments on `slideChange` event